Given a large dataset, how would you design an efficient query to aggregate data?
SELECT 
    product_id, 
    region, 
    SUM(amount) AS total_sales, 
    AVG(amount) AS average_sales, 
    COUNT(*) AS number_of_sales
FROM 
    sales
WHERE 
    date BETWEEN '2023-01-01' AND '2023-12-31'
GROUP BY 
    product_id, region
ORDER BY 
    total_sales DESC;



Describe a time when you had to refactor a database schema for better performance. What steps did you take?

Initial Analysis
Identify Performance Issues:

The application was facing slow response times, especially on queries involving order processing and product searches.
Users reported delays when searching for products and during the checkout process.
Examine the Existing Schema:

The orders table had a large number of columns, many of which were rarely used.
The products table lacked proper indexing, causing full table scans for search queries.
Relationships between tables were not properly normalized, leading to redundant data and inefficient joins.
Steps Taken to Refactor the Schema
Profiling and Benchmarking:

Used database profiling tools to identify slow queries and their execution plans.
Benchmarked current performance to have a baseline for measuring improvements.
Schema Redesign:

Normalization:
Broke down the orders table into smaller, more focused tables. For example, separated order_details from orders to reduce column clutter.
Created new tables for related data, such as order_items, which linked to orders via foreign keys.
Indexing:
Added indexes to frequently queried columns, such as product_name, category, and price in the products table.
Created composite indexes on columns that were often used together in queries.
Denormalization (where beneficial):
Introduced some level of denormalization in the products table to include precomputed fields like total_reviews and average_rating to speed up read queries.
Data Migration:

Wrote migration scripts to transfer data from the old schema to the new schema.
Ensured data consistency and integrity during the migration process.
Performed the migration during off-peak hours to minimize the impact on users.
Query Optimization:

Refactored slow queries to take advantage of the new schema design and indexing.
Simplified complex joins and reduced the number of subqueries.
Testing:

Extensively tested the new schema and queries in a staging environment.
Verified that all application features worked correctly with the new schema.
Used load testing tools to simulate high traffic and ensure the new design could handle peak loads.
Deployment and Monitoring:

Gradually rolled out the new schema to production, starting with a small subset of users.
Closely monitored performance metrics and logs for any anomalies or issues.
Provided a rollback plan in case of critical issues.
Results
Improved Query Performance: The refactored schema and optimized queries significantly reduced query execution times. Product searches and order processing became much faster.
Reduced Latency: The overall application latency decreased, leading to a better user experience.
Scalability: The new schema design was more scalable, allowing the application to handle a larger number of concurrent users without performance degradation.
Maintainability: The database became easier to maintain and extend due to the cleaner and more organized schema design.
Conclusion
Refactoring the database schema involved a systematic approach of analyzing the current issues, redesigning the schema, optimizing queries, migrating data, and thoroughly testing the changes. The result was a more efficient and scalable database that provided a better experience for users and was easier to maintain for developers.



Explain how you would migrate a database from on-premises to a cloud-based solution like AWS RDS or Google Cloud SQL.

How do you handle schema evolution in a production database?

Discuss a challenging bug you encountered related to database interaction in a Java application. How did you resolve it?

Types of Joins
Inner Join
Left (Outer) Join
Right (Outer) Join
Full (Outer) Join
Cross Join


1. Inner Join
An inner join returns only the rows where there is a match in both tables.

Example
Suppose we have two tables, employees and departments.

employees

employee_id name    department_id
1   Alice   10
2   Bob 20
3   Charlie 30
departments

department_id   department_name
10  HR
20  Engineering
40  Marketing
Query:

sql
Copy code
SELECT e.name, d.department_name
FROM employees e
JOIN departments d ON e.department_id = d.department_id;
Result:

name    department_name
Alice   HR
Bob Engineering
